but whose yen to me looking back on this
evening five years in the future 10
years the future when people were asking
what was this dream this dream that took
the internet by storm for a short time
and then it died how did people convince
themselves that eating 11 mangos a day
or 30 bananas a day that this was not
just something you should do but
something you should get on the internet
and boast about that this was the crux
of a social change of a moral change of
a transformation of our society it's
it's just bizarre huh that new Yin
YouTube is like the only Club in town
that's open after 3 a.m. you don't go
there because it's good you go because
you don't have a better alternative and
the people you meet there too aren't
good they're the people who just don't
have anywhere else to go
what I do on YouTube is not activism it
is merely better than nothing a lot of
us simply don't have much to give and
don't have better options the choice is
be honest about it as opposed to being
on an insane ego trip a lot of us in the
last five years have witnessed the rise
and fall of an insane ego trip still
today there are some people who are
simultaneously buying and selling a
dream that just can't be true what is
that dream it's hard to talk about it
now that it's finally dying now that
it's finally become something that's
laughed at and regarded as embarrassing
within veganism the dream was that you
could quit your day job live on
permanent vacation make money promoting
your lifestyle and the same time wrap
that all up in the self-satisfied
confidence that you were doing the most
you can for the animals for the
environment for the future of the planet
that you were making the world a better
place through a new
and thrilling form of politics that's
almost completely apolitical because
putting on a bikini and going to the
beach is about the least political thing
you can do and yet it was glorified very
seriously by so many people as activism
and tacked on to this strangely was this
idea of unlimited calories that you
should feature yourself eating insane
quantities of bananas mangoes dates list
of almost arbitrarily chosen high
calorie foods this was a sort of package
deal a sort of air SATs ideology it was
an air SATs a tea ology that for a
couple of years there seemed like a
dominant element of veganism animal
rights in ecology and it seemed that way
because so many people were vocally
promoting it on the Internet a small
number of people through the internet
can cast a big shadow they can have a
big impact especially when they are
fanatical believers in the idea that
they're not merely pursuing fame money
sex ego but that they're actually you
know making the world a better place at
the same time and when the outcomes are
for them guaranteed right outcomes as
diverse as weight loss and fame itself
that if you just follow this simple
formula for making and uploading videos
the fame that a very small number of
other people have had can be reproduced
for you in your life you'll be able to
pay your bills
basically by exploiting your own your
own beauty even if you ain't beautiful
now look this is one example obviously
there are hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of examples and you're gonna
see why I chose this this is not a bad
example that's spending an above-average
sample this young woman uses the screen
name mole candy is her full name is more
Kandee something like that objectively
she's good-looking not my type not a
subjective statement but I mean you know
she's slim she has piercing blue eyes
she has a lot of body arches a lot of
tattoos and even more rare she has a
huge advantage of living in one of the
only places in the world one of the few
places that does have a big vegan
population she lives in Portland Oregon
so she has the possibility to promote
her channel really through a network of
people who know each other face to face
it's a huge advantage most of us don't
have most of us online were the only
vegan are in our town or we don't know
or get along with even two or three
other vegans and this young woman put
quite some work into her Instagram
accounts into her videos and so on and
nobody cares you know nobody cares
obviously after this video maybe some of
you are gonna go check out her channel
maybe she'll gain some fans from this
but you know the brutal reality that
this this ideology was ignoring is is
basically the same that you have in
something like music I mean you can't
you can't point to a jazz musician and
say look at that jazz musician he makes
plenty of money therefore if you just
start playing jazz music you'll have
plenty of money to know know that the
vast majority of jazz musicians spend
years of their lives developing their
craft practicing playing gigs and nobody
cares and there's no fame and there's no
money and they don't become sex icons
you know is it even one in a million I
mean today in 2016 if if you want to be
a jazz musician in the year 2016 it has
to be for some other reason it cannot
possibly be for money fame sex or any of
those things that come with success you
have to be motivated by the art form
itself or by I don't know some
charitable instinct I have no idea I'm
you know if you're a jazz musician these
days you probably do gigs out of charity
going and playing at old folks homes and
that kind of thing I've known some jazz
musicians well these examples like that
you know I mean it is what it is it's an
art form
but I mean at least jazz musicians don't
don't think they're saving the world
I mean all these strange elements of it
yes I just say a few more comments about
about Moe can do as I say she is better
looking than average by far a lot of
people trying to play this game do not
have her her unfair advantages in that
respect she also is way more intelligent
than average and you guys may think
that's a backhanded compliment because
obviously there are some remarkably
stupid people who are in the high carb
low fat echo chamber but she does
actually have some monologues about the
meaning of culture and you know she has
some reflections that show that she's
actually working with quite a few brain
cells so is culture a good or a bad
thing like ask yourself is the things
that you're thinking the product of
social conditioning and cultural I don't
know whatever
or is it your actual thoughts is it
coming from innate inside you so yeah
but still it's it's weird
why the hell would anyone wake up and
eat five mangoes for breakfast yeah I'm
I hope this isn't too shallow for you
guys but I do want to pause on this for
for a minute this young woman lives in
Portland Oregon
that's very very close to where I was
living in Canada until recently I was
living in Victoria BC so by boat they're
incredibly close together it's just down
the coast a short short distance I've
also in the past lived in Thailand Laos
Cambodia I'm living in China right now
so I mean I know mangoes
I know mangoes in Asia I know mangoes in
that part of North America I'd be lucky
in Victoria to get a lousy mango for one
dollar generally you could only get a
mango for one dollar
if the store messed up its order had too
many mangos they were getting overripe
they were trying to sell them off as
quickly as possible one mango in
Victoria $2 $2.50 routinely $2.99 each
for each mango $2.99 this $2.99 canadian
not US dollars but nevertheless my point
is in that part of the world whether
it's Portland or Victoria mangos are
very expensive and they are also low
quality when I lived in Thailand and
Laos
by contrast mangos were extremely cheap
and extremely high-quality because
they're farmed locally even when I was
out there just getting a ton of exercise
just coping with life you know sorry if
you guys are new to my channel I did you
manage I did research I was studying
languages I was not on permanent
vacation I was never on vacation I was
working my ass off intellectually and
and otherwise and trying to do
humanitarian work I did manage to do a
little bit of humanitarian work but you
do a lot more trying than you do getting
in that field um I can remember eating
three mangos in a day I don't know maybe
if they were small mangos maybe in the
whole day I ate four but this young
woman in Portland had five mangos for
breakfast and then what another six
mangos in the rest of the day six
mangoes for dinner
she ate 11 mangoes in one day and I
don't I don't have been 20 US dollars
worth of mangoes in one day in in many
different ways this is both not
sustainable and frankly even disgusting
I've eaten a lot of mangoes
I mean the quality of mangoes you can
get in Portland is garbage compared to
other places that live but III honestly
would feel revolted to eat that many
mangoes in a day even if I had the money
to waste so I mean you know okay
obviously this is shallow but
to me looking back on this evening five
years in the future ten years the future
when people were asking what was this
dream this dream that took the internet
by storm for a short time and then it
died how did people convince themselves
that eating 11 mangos a day or 30
bananas a day that this was not just
something you should do but something
you should get on the internet and boast
about that this was the crux of a social
change of a moral change of a
transformation of our society it's it's
just bizarre it's really hard to figure
out even now now and also when I say the
dream is dead you know in my own
lifetime I have to compare it to 1989
you know the the end of communism the
fall that the Berlin Wall now of course
you can't call it the end of communism
communism is still a very powerful very
influential ideology but you know before
1989 before the fall of the Berlin Wall
many people felt completely justified in
making excuses for communism making
excuses for mass murder I heard it all
the time and it would be on mainstream
TV on the nightly news and public access
they'd have representatives of the
Communist Party in the communist
viewpoints sitting there and in a sort
of respectable manner making excuses for
mass murder another and mass murder and
mass starvation other unbelievable
failures of communism and after 1989
that's what ended you know the dream
didn't die in some ways the dream never
died there will always be dreamers there
will always be true believers still
today there are people making excuses
for the high carb low fat lifestyle and
unlimited calories and making excuses
for the idea that YouTube activism is
the most effective actives in the world
but it has become embarrassing the
animals
hashtag cruelty free hashtags so vegan
hashtag being activism it ceased to be a
dominant ideal it seems to be an ideal
people even feel comfortable you know
making excuses for it's regarded
increasingly with a kind of mute
embarrassment
and you know that's a change I've I've
done my part to my small part to
instigate expedite you know when guys
like vegan cheetah also those are things
that I have in common with cheat even
though were such different people in so
many ways you know what was the dream
what was the dream that just died you
guys have heard me say in many other
videos before I mean as soon as money
sex and fame are brought into the
picture people will do anything to get
them people will do anything to keep
them they'll lie they'll cheat they'll
steal they'll stab each other in the
back but above and beyond that they'll
also just censor themselves and these
patreon beings won't give their nuanced
opinion of anything that goes against
the grain because if they do they're
gonna to lose money they're gonna lose
patrons there have been a lot of
reflections lately from people on the
kind of fear that freely seemed to
inspire another's the people were afraid
people were afraid to admit they gained
weight oh gee you eat 11 mangoes in a
day and you gain weight what a shock you
know or people were afraid to admit that
they stopped eating in this crazy way
this this young woman I chose in
Portland MO candy I just checked her
Instagram she has changed her diet
she's switched to eating a much more
balanced diet with a lot of grains
involved and she even admits that she
now drinks beer what a shock so she's
now given up many of the crucial tenets
of the the high carb low fat lifestyle
not all of them maybe but you know
having a green bait having grains as the
staple of your diet as opposed to
mangoes as the staple of your diet makes
a lot of sense even if you live in
Southeast Asia but you know people who
would lie about gaining weight people
who would lie about curing diseases that
they never cured even simple things like
acne people I think they cured their
acne and you see them two weeks later
and they've still got acne or the acne
came back but you know claiming they
cured all kinds of diseases that are not
curable you yeah I can mention examples
of that including people who become
disillusioned like lakenya you know hey
Nia has talked about hennya mania some
of her
her health conditions simply came and
went you know she would have them
temporarily she'd get symptoms for a
while and become asymptomatic and when
she was a true believer she attributed
this to the high carb low fat diet to
the fruit based diet and she was
claiming or insisting back in the past
that she had cured these conditions but
when they came back when the symptoms
returned then she'd be caught in a sort
of cognitive dissonance trap and the
question be are you gonna lie to the
public are you gonna claim you're still
cured or are you gonna are you gonna be
honest about it
so yeah that whole the faith healing
element you know the natural medicine
element the delusions of fruit being
better than modern medical science those
were also aspects of the dream that have
died there is no known cure for Crohn's
disease people and there is no
neurotoxin in garlic etc etc and even
though I disapprove of coffee I'm anti
caffeine myself I have to admit there
were millions and millions of people who
manage their caffeine usage without
having serious negative side effects in
life I still implore you I still think
you should try to have zero caffeine in
your life if possible or as close to
zero as possible that's my opinion but
I'm not gonna make a pseudo scientific
or pseudo religious argument as to why
you have to agree with me or why you're
a fake vegan if you don't so look I mean
you know there are just so many of these
channels where like the jazz musician
would have you at the end of the day you
got to say oh nobody cares
you're beautiful you're doing lifestyle
activism you're in the bikini or you're
doing everything right you're following
the whole formula but nobody cares
because you were making a pitch for fame
within a tiny subculture that's already
oversaturated with meaningless vanity
and as I say the kind of fishhook effect
here like once you're in you get hooked
once you get that little bit of Fame are
you willing to tell difficult truths are
you willing to challenge your audience
or challenge yourself are you willing to
say things that will risk you
or losing followers and these patreon
medians won't give their nuanced opinion
of anything that goes against the grain
because if they do they're going to lose
money they're gonna lose patrons and the
fact is the main people that suffer for
this are people who want to go vegan so
the main fact that you're financially
exploiting other vegans for your own
personal gain is [ __ ] disgusting
in a real vegan wouldn't do that to
other vegans unless
oh my god
imagine being at all
they're crappy I did donate to certain
youtubers who have patreon accounts who
claim they're vegan activist in order to
get a shout out because it said if you
donate a certain amount they will give
you a shout out I was never reciprocated
for my payment and the fact is these
youtubers social media personalities are
running these patreon and I'm pretty
sure I'm not the first one that for this
to happen to and don't donate to these
people if you think you're gonna get
reciprocated the veg bro here I thought
had some really interesting reflections
on that he's partly reflecting on the
dishonesty of how patreon works in in
other ways you know paying money to
someone and hoping that they're going to
promote your YouTube channel in exchange
as you guys may have noticed I promote a
lot of other YouTube channels here
because I sincerely believe they're
worth watching and nobody pays me for
that but hey join might join my patreon
anyway because patreon right now is the
only income I have on planet earth um
but look um I am exactly the kind of
person who's still gonna take those
risks because my personal integrity
means more to me than a hundred dollars
and it means more than me than than a
thousand dollars and that attitude has
gotten me into trouble my whole life I
have quit jobs over a point of moral
principle again and again and again when
I was in Cambodia some of the research
we were doing it was immoral I'm not
gonna tell the whole story it'll make
this this podcast too long so many
situations where I've had to say I can't
do this job I can't continue this job
for for ethical reasons but you know
that that is that is a really nasty
fissure once you're in once you've made
those sacrifices for that fame for that
little bit of money are you willing to
say things that you know will challenge
your audience like hey pet ownership is
a lot more morally complex
then we want to admit it it's it's a lot
more morally dubious there are there are
hard issues hard questions to ask there
as vegans are you willing to admit that
you kill insects or are you gonna come
on do the dishonest thing Gary Yourofsky
did and claim that he literally never
kills a mosquito never kills a bedbug
never never kills insects of any kind or
are you willing to talk to about about
hard truths even if it could hit your
pocketbook even if it could destroy your
your following and an essay it's a
fishhook because I mean once once you're
hooked it's so hard to get the hook out
there's also sorrow involved there's
also the sacrifices you've made lately I
met some people on the Internet
including people who wrote me letters
within patreon that were really
interesting you know people who paid the
$1.00 on patreon and then they talked to
me
it's patreon is now my main social media
platform what everyone say I say oh wow
you know this is really interesting like
can I can I talk to you can I interview
you by Skype and then upload that
interview as a you know as a podcast or
or on my youtube channel and some of the
people say no because they do not want
to expose themselves to death threats to
ridicule to doxxing to you know that
they do not want to expose themselves to
exactly the kind of things I I myself
have endured and now you know because
they're obviously they're real people
who have real jobs and real lives and
there's a real risk involved and that's
very sad too so I mean the people who
are not motivated by Fame but not may
instead be motivated by fear once you're
in the game
once you've shared your life on the
internet once you've made those
sacrifices are you willing to question
in question publicly maybe some of the
things you used to believe in that you
now know are dead wrong whether that's
eating 11 mangoes a day or even just the
idea that what you're doing on the
Internet is activism and really helps
people and has real
world outcomes or does all of that have
to be silenced to keep up a public image
that pays your rent if you are in the
tiny tiny minority of people for whom
the dream pays off and for whom your web
presence does pay you around